Hi, everyone.
In this letter, we will be selecting the highlighted site.
All right, so what are we going to do as first off, let's create the event for that.
And that is going to be the click event listener, E-L.
And it is going to be within the territory of canvas, so out of one listener, we will be listening
for a click and then we will be running a click function.
All right.
So where should we put this click function?
I'm going to put it right after our Kloster play game, our the our game loop.
So it is going to be the click function.
Right, and what do we want to do in here?
So it's basically the same thing that we're.
Where did we do that?
Basically this if time end is greater than zero, we want to return.
If the game has finished, we don't want to be able to click.
Right.
So first off, let's check for that, so I'm going to pass in our event object as well.
I just want to yeah, we have passed the event here as well, so let's passing the event object.
For this event, that's passant our condition, and that is going to be let's copy this from here,
the same way that we do not want to highlight anything, we do not want to click on anything.
So next stop in here.
I just want to call a select side function, all right?
And I'm not going to pass in anything for that select site function.
Next stop, let's go ahead into our new game function now for a new game function, where is our new
game?
So I'm going to collapse this one and also the highlighted side inside our new game functions.
I'm going to grab our current cell's array and I'm going to say I'm going to reset it or basically and
here we are initializing the current cell's array.
All right, and.
What I'm going to do as inside our highlight site, we before actually running the sluff, we need to
go ahead and we need to grab our current cells and we need to reset it their right.
And after that, we need to go ahead and we need to populate this current cells.
All right.
And for populating this, we know that we have our site, which is going to give us each side.
But before passing this site, we need to check that if if that site is not not so if that site is not
empty, then we are going to grab our current cells and we are going to say, Pusch what is it that
we want to push?
We want to push an object which which has a property of Roe with a value of AI and a property of call
with a value of J.
All right.
So basically we are pushing it there.
Now, let's go ahead and let's actually create the select side function.
OK, so I'm going to go here.
Let's copy this comment, oh, not cut it, just copy it, put it right here and we are going to say
select side.
Perfect.
So what do we want to do within the select side function?
First off, we need to check for something not we want to check a specific side if our current self
is not empty.
Right.
And if the current sells and either it doesn't have anything, we don't want to select that side.
So let's go ahead and let's actually see that in code.
That is that is going to make more sense.
So if the current sells is null.
Or the length is zero, so length is zero.
We don't want to do anything, we want to return from this function otherwise.
We want to select a specific site, so we are going to say select site.
Perfect, so inside here, let's go over let's let's loop over our current selves and for each cell
that we loop over that, we are going to select that side.
So we are going to say for that cell of current cells.
Squares, let's grab our squares function, let's passan so for the road, we are going to have cell
Dutrow for the column or we are going to have cell dot column and what it is that we want to do, we
want to select the site.
Let's call Endi select site method in here.
After we have selected the site, we are going to go ahead and reset our current cells to an empty office,
to an empty array, right.
And.
What I'm going to do then is let's go ahead.
I don't think we have created this function, so we have dry side, we have dry sides, we have highlight's
side.
We don't have anything underneath that.
But we do need our select side.
So I'm just going to put it right here.
So this is what I meant by actually how to methods having the same name.
I couldn't come up with a better name.
So if you can go ahead and do it so you can see that this squares is actually a class.
And on this class, when we call in a function, that function should be within that within that class.
So when we call in that select side on the squares, it means that this squares the select side is within
the square.
So it shouldn't be confusing at all for you.
Let's come down here and I'm going to say select side.
Let's grab our good old arrow function.
And first off, let's go ahead and let's check if this if if the cell highlight is null, we want to
return.
It means we want to select a side only if if that is highlighted.
So return.
All right.
We want to we want to do basically that.
And now let's go ahead and let's select the highlighted set side.
I know I'm saying a lot of sides now, and this is going to be a switch as well, because we are checking
for either of the sites.
So this start highlight, the first case is going to be if this if side dot bottom not begin path,
side, dot bottom.
If it is the side bottom that has been highlighted, what do we want to do?
We want to select it.
So we want to say side bottom dot owner is no longer null, but it is the player's turn.
And also this dot side bottom dot selected is no longer false, but true because it has been selected.
So basically what we are doing here is we want to first check if that site is selected, highlighted,
if it is not highlighted.
We don't want to do anything in case it is highlighted.
We want to check which side it is and if it is Sidebottom, grab the bottom.
What about the other sites?
So for those, we need to provide cases as well.
So let me just provide space there, so if it is the left left, we want to grab the side.
Let me just grab this and control.
We want to grab the side left and the owner is going to be player, stern player.
And we are going to say that selected is true.
It means that it has been selected at this point for the right.
If it is right, we are going to grab the bottom and change it to.
Right.
All right.
And if it is tough, we are basically going to do the same thing.
We are going to say controlled top.
Perfect.
All right, so let's actually go now that we can select the side, we need to be able to draw that side
as well.
So within our draw sides function that we have just checked for, if it is highlighted and now we need
to actually draw that side.
So we are going to say f this that side bottom.
Dart selected, if it is true and we know it is true, why?
Because it has been highlighted.
It has been.
And in here we have said they selected to true.
If it is true, what do we want to do?
Of course we want to draw that side.
So we are going to say this stud draw side in mind, draw syeed singular.
It is going to be decided bottom.
And this side is going to grab which side it is and what is the color for that side?
So the color is going to be dependent on whether it is the player's turn or the computer's turn, a.k.a.
player one and players, too.
So we need to check for that as well.
So for for this, we are going to grab our get colored function and we are going to pass on this dart
side.
But bottom.
That owner, whichever owner that is, and the second parameter in here is going to be the light, you
can see that it says the second arguments are going to be light now that we are actually selecting the
site.
So you can see that when you hover on it, it is going to highlight it and it is light.
But when we select it, it is no longer light.
It is like that perfect solid color that we have.
So the light in this case is going to be false.
False.
All right, so we are we have done this now let's go ahead and let's repeat it three more times for
the other side's.
So if this does Sidebottom, if this that side left, if it does decide left, we are going to grab
the side left in here.
I'm going to grab the side right.
And in here, I'm going to grab the side top.
And we are not going to change the owner, but just we are just going to go.
I'm just going to provide a comment here just to try to separate these conditions from each other.
And this should go a little bit further perfect, so Sidebottom, we are going to select this, draw
the Sidebottom, the color is going to be Sidebottom, that owner, and it is not going to be light
for this side left.
We are going to select the side lefts owner.
For this side, right?
We are going to scrub the side rights owner.
So right, and for this side, TARP, we are going to select this side Tatz owner.
All right, so so far, what we are going to do is we are actually drawing the side and what I'm going
to do is I'm going to save this right here and we are going to come to our game after 177 syntax error,
missing after 177.
So there is something that I've missed.
So 177.
177 oh, so this is an object, so we should not pass semicolon.
We should just pass in color and let's remove that.
I think now the error is gone.
Perfect.
So now if I click, you can see the side is selected.
Select, select, select, select, select, select, select, select, select.
And we can select.
Of course, there is still a lot of things that we need to cover.
Now, the first first off, what I want to do is I want to go to Bakhtawar select side function and
I want to the function declaration.
And whenever one of the players select SICI, the next turn should be the next player.
So where is our.
Where is the select site right here beneath these the current cells?
What I would like to do is I would like to switch the players.
So if it is player's turn, it is not player's turn, this is going to basically switch them.
And I'm going to say
switch.
Switch the player, so now we should see both of the players playing.
Orange, green, orange, green, orange, green, orange, green, orange, green, orange and green,
and now, OK, so everything seems to be working fine.
Let's go ahead and reload the page.
I'm not sure if you can really see this, but if you approach this from the bottom, you can see that
the color is changing.
It is very subtle.
So this is green.
This is green.
Right.
This one, if we go ahead and if we click on it, it is going to turn to orange.
And that is not something that we want.
The reason that this is happening is because we have not actually specified our neighbor.
So you can see that I've just drawn green here.
But if I click on, it is going to turn into an orange and now it is stuck there.
I can turn this to green as well.
So you are able to actually rewrite or redraw on the same line that has already been drawn.
So we need to take care of that as well.
So what I'm going to do is we are going to first determine which neighbor it is that has been there,
that has colic, and then we are going to highlight that neighbor.
So within our highlights side, this is this is the highlight side within there, what it is that we
would like to do.
So if the site is highlighted, we know that we want to push it to our current selves after we push
it to current levels, we want to determine the neighbor.
Is it like this, I think this is correct, we want to determine the neighbor, so for that, we are
going to say let's row equal to Eilerts, initialised the row to I, the column to J, and then we are
going to grab the highlight.
And we are just going to declare that, and at first we are going to grab our neighbor and we are going
to set it to true.
Of course, we are going to set it to false later.
But for now, we are just going to set it.
Now, there is going to be some logic that we need to right here for for us to be able to actually do
whatever it is that we want to do here.
We want to do here.
Right.
So.
Let's go ahead and let's actually do it.
So first off, we want to check if side if the side that has been selected equals the side that left.
So we are starting with the left.
If it is equal to the side, the left and J is greater than zero.
It means we have some columns there, what it is that we want.
So when this.
This side is equal to that.
So this is not greater than this inside the left.
So this is what we have selected, right?
So if I saw like this, what is the neighbor's perspective?
So this belongs to this.
Let's say this belongs to this cell.
What is the you know what?
I'm going to grab a left one so you can really understand.
So let's see.
Let's say this is my cell and this is the left part, which is orange.
So according to my perspective, this is going to be left.
But according to the neighbors perspective, which is this one, the left one, this is the neighbor.
It is going to be a right side.
So we are going to consider the neighbors perspective as well.
So we are going to say.
The neighbors perspective are right, so I'm just going to write it from the neighbors perspective so
you can really understand what it is.
It is, I would say, a little bit complicated.
But if you pay attention, it is not going to be then the column is going to be J minus one.
All right.
And we are going to reduce one number from the number of columns that we have because the columns is
greater than one.
It means that we are.
So this is column number one.
This is column number zero.
This column number one.
This is column number two.
So when the line is in the line number column number one, it means that is greater than zero because
J actually represents columns if it is greater than zero.
And we want to take care of the perspective for the neighbor, we should go one level back.
We should say J column minus one.
And we are going to get to this column because this column for which this to which the cell belongs
to is actually the neighbor for which we are setting the perspective.
So we are going one level back because the neighbor is on the left and the left of its on the left.
It is wonderful back and we are going to say J minus one.
And for the neighbor, what the neighbor would think, what side has been highlighted.
The neighbor would think that the side right.
Has been highlighted.
Right.
So this side for me it is left but for my neighbor it is right.
So we are going to set it to write.
Very, very simple logic here, guys.
So we are going to say al-Assaf al-Assaf side equals.
Now, we have talked about the left.
Let's go ahead and let's talk about the right.
So you know what?
I'm just going to copy this entire thing and I'm going to put it right here.
So if side is side, right equals to side right.
And J is less than.
The number of columns, minus one.
All right, where is the number of columns minus one coming from?
It is coming from right here.
All right, so we know that Jay represents columns, and if it is less than the the length of the columns
or minus one less than that, then it means that we have selected a right site.
So let's refresh that.
Now, let's think that this is our cell.
And if I click this, you remember that this site is minus one.
This site is plus one.
Right.
This site is greater.
The site is less than.
So if I select this for me, it is going to be right.
But for my neighbor and is going to be left.
We are going to grab and my neighbor is one level above me, it is greater than zero.
It is actually the reverse of the previous case.
So we are going to set the JTA plus one very simple logic, very simple.
If it is on the left, it means that we are moving towards the negative X direction.
We are going to subtract it.
If it is on the right, we are moving in the positive direction.
It means we are going to add it on.
And now for the neighbor, it is going to be left.
So my right neighbors left.
Simple, right.
Where is the.
OK, it's right there, perfect, so we have our if statement, it is going to end there.
The answer is going to start and end there.
So I'm going to write else here.
You know what, I'm just going to grab this entire al-Assaf and I'm going to copy it down below and
just copy it.
Let's put it right here.
Let's save it.
So now the next next stop, we are going to talk about the top and bottom for top and bottom.
We are talking about the rose.
So we are no longer talking about the GAO and the column.
So look right here.
So if this that if side is equal to the top, the eye, when it when we are going to tell in which direction
we are traveling, we are traveling in the negative Y direction.
So for us it is going to be the positive.
So we are going to be greater than zero.
But for our neighbor it is going to be negative.
Because Nabor is one level above us, one level above, and success is one level lower.
And let's change this to Rosewell.
And based on the neighbor, it is going to be this side bar perfect.
So we have set aside is top for us.
Bottom is for the neighbor and our final condition.
Let's copy it and let's put it here.
If for us it is bottom for the neighbor, it is going to be tough.
And now we are one level up.
A neighbor is one level down, one level up in Cyesis means for the neighbor plus.
And for our for us, it is going to be rose minus one.
And row column, row column, and if all of this and if none of this, where is our neighbor?
We have not used our name.
We are going to use that.
And if none of this returns true.
And if none of that is actually evaluated, we want our neighbor.
It means that we don't have any neighbor.
So we are going to set the neighbor to false.
If none of this is evaluated, we are just going to set it to false.
Now, this is going to take care of determining which neighbor it is, and the final step here would
be actually highlighting the neighbor, so highlighting the neighbor.
For that, we are going to say, if Nabor is true, we are going to grab our squares away.
And from there, the row sorry, the row and the column does highlight, probably highlight, not highlight,
Craig just highlight.
And we're going to set it to highlight it means that we want to highlight it and then we want to push
that row and that column to our current selves, current selves, dot pusch.
We have a small object here, we are going to say RO is going to be equal to Roe and Carl is going to
be able to call, let's save it.
Hopefully we can remove that problem now.
So I'm going to say I'm going to reload that.
So if I click, we have this.
If I click here, we have that.
And now you can see that it doesn't matter which row I'm coming towards, we cannot rewrite the color.
So everything is working perfectly fine.
So select it.
We cannot see reselected again.
See, because we have said the perspective for all of the neighbors.
And that problem is solved now.
And that's just click to see if nothing weird is going on.
All right, so everything is perfectly fine, that is going to be it for this lecture.
See you guys in the next one.